Hi, I'm gayatri.
And today we are going to talk
about the IBM DB2 on cloud and
we are a team of four sheeja,
Sunil and Purna.
Now let's see what is IBM DB2.
Mix.
Yeah, it is actually a fully
managed public cloud, uh
database.
It is a service offered by IBM
and it also has a built-in
engine which is 11.5 engine,
which is easy to use and also
accelerated query processing.
And next the service is actually
suitable for wild wide range of
applications from OLTP which is
online transaction processing to
data warehousing and it also
provides a versatile solutions
for critical data and supporting
analytics and driving AI driven
applications and few companies
which use this.
IBM DB2 cloud are AT&T.
They are two and Walmart.
Uh, these are few companies and
the main reason these companies
use IBM DB2 is because of its
key features, and those are
expertly managed, highly secure
and scalable and continuously
available availability and
disaster recovery.
One engine for oral workloads,
deploy and current connect
across hybrid cloud ingest,
store and query all type of data
and data driven governance and
security.
These are some of the key
features so.
Uh, all because of these key
features?
Many companies use IBM DB2.
Now let's see how the interface
looks srija you can go ahead.
Yeah.
So there are many ways to
connect to IBM DB2 like by using
JDBC or ODBC connection or maybe
with .net or PHP.
But for our project we have used
IBM DB2 on cloud user interface.
So there is no installation is
required for this, so it's just
a web page.
When you, when you go into the
web page, the page will be looks
like this.
So here for our project they
have created this resource DB29K
uh next if you click on the go
to user interface it will
redirect to a page which looks
like this.
So in the left panel we can see
Dashboard run is SQL data
administration and there are a
few other things as well.
So in the dashboard you can see
the progress like how much data
you have used or how much
storage it has been used per
day.
So like that you can see the
dashboard and in run SQL we can
write the code and we can
execute the code and you know uh
and and at the right side you
can see a a thing that is syntax
assistance, right.
So if you click on, if you
activate this, it will populate
the errors while doing the
coding.
If there are any errors, it will
highlight and and then in the
next that uh data where we can
load the data like by uh CSV
files or maybe using S Excel
files.
You can load the data so
administration column will have
the details about the
administration things and in the
downside you can see about apps,
APIs and documentation support.
So if you stuck anywhere in
while doing the coding, you can
go and read the documentation
and then do the coding.
UM.
And then, uh, by loading the
data will be explained by potna.
Yeah.
So this is the SQL pane where
you can write your SQL code.
So firstly on my left hand side
I can see all the data objects.
So fly 18393 is the default
schema provided by IBM DB2 Light
Edition and we will not be
allowed to create new schemas.
So we need to use the existing
default schema and we can see if
you have created any tables or
any views or other things.
Those data objects will appear
on to the left side of this.
So firstly, let's create a users
table.
So once I select uh, the sequel
query, I can click on run
selected and that SQL would run
and if it is successful then
you'll get a success, if not
you'll get an error message that
shows something like this.
OK, because I have already, I
already have an object called
users so I'm not able to create
that.
So we'll do one thing, we'll
drop the users and then we'll
create them back.
So we can write a comment called
Rock Drop Table users so you can
see that, uh, the syntax is
automatically completed by IBM
DB2.
So I can run a command called
drop users so I have dropped the
users table and I will also drop
the card table.
So I've dropped both of our
entities.
Now I'm going to recreate them.
So first is the users table.
So I have created the users
table so the status shows one
that means it is a success.
So I can look at the full status
here where it shows what is the
runtime and what are the rows
affected.
What is the full query body and
so on.
So once you have created this
users entity, let's now load
data into this users in entity.
So on the left hand side, let's
go into data and then let's
select from where do I want to
load the data.
So I have few options here.
I can load it from my computer
or I can load it from Amazon S3
or I can load it from IBM cloud
storage.
So for now, let me load it from
my local environment.
So I'm going to browse the file
that is users and I'm going to
upload it and then I can click
on next.
So here it asks you to choose
the schema and choose the table
into which you want to load your
data and it gives you two
options whether you want to
append new data or do you want
to overwrite the table with new
data.
So if you are doing multiple
loads incremental loads then you
can go for option like append
new data.
I'm just doing batch loading so
I'm just going to press on
overwrite table with new data so
and you can see what is the
column name.
What is the data type and if it
is nullable or not?
And then you can click on next
and here you can see things like
the data, the columns and their
data types as well.
And you have option to select
character encoding.
What is the separator if header
is in the first row and if you
have some custom time or date
format then you can give those
date format or time format or
type timestamp format over here.
So because I don't have any date
column in this table, I'm just
going to, I'm just going to
click on next and then finally
this is the review settings page
where it shows you all the
details along with an option
called the maximum number of
warnings before, after which it
stops loading the data.
So here I've kept it as thousand
and then I can begin the load.
So once I begin the load, it
loads my data from my local
environment to the staging table
and then from staging table to
the final user stable.
So once the loading has been
completed, you can see a this
that 2000 rows have been read
and 2000 rows have been loaded
and none of the rows have been
rejected.
And if you have some errors or
warnings, those will be
appearing over here because we
don't have any errors.
So we are good to go.
Next, we can go to the SQL where
I'm just creating.
Other another table called users
new new and I have given a
primary key as user ID which is
an auto generating.
I column and then I'm inserting
the data from users to users new
and I'm doing a bunch of
operations where I'm just
dropping the old table called
users and I'm changing the name
of users new table to users.
So as I run all these comments
you can see that status of all
the comments is a success.
Now let me just check if I have
data in my users entity.
So on site on the select command
I can see the status as one, so
I can go into select all from
users and you can see that the
data has been loaded into my
table successfully and you can
also see what are the uh records
that are there here.
And next let let me create my
other entity which is cards.
Again, let me run the create
statement for cards.
And the cards?
Uh table has been created.
Now let me load data into this
card stable as well.
Again, I'm following the same
steps, just getting the data
from my local system.
Selecting the schema, selecting
the table and if I want to
append new data or overwrite
table with the new data, I want
to overwrite table with new data
and then you can see the data,
the columns and the data type of
each and everything here if you
notice that we have an date
column which is month slash year
so this is a custom date format.
So at this point of time, we
need to change the default date
format whatever is specified
here with month year.
And then you don't have any time
format.
We don't have any time stamps,
so we are good to go.
We can click on next and we can
just review our settings and
again begin loading.
So we can see that all the rows
have been loaded successfully.
There are no rows that got
rejected.
There are no errors and there
are no warnings as well, so
let's go back to our SQL window
and here I'm just doing few
operations where I am.
Relating the users and card
stable with a foreign key and
finally I am doing a select
statement on my cards table to
see if I have the data in my
card state so I can see that
there is data in card stable as
well.
So now we'll perform a bunch of
CRUD operations here.
So we have a use case like uh,
we have a fintech product called
card flow and it is used as a
card management system for our
users and they can manage their
cards in this.
So let us take a fictional user,
Sara, who is onboarding into
this card system.
So once she onboards into this.
Card flow product she has to
give all her details.
Like what?
All her card numbers and all her
personal details like name, date
of birth and so on.
So when she gives all those
details first operation which we
do is an insert.
So we insert all the details of
the user into user table and
then we insert all the card
details into this card stable.
So this is the create operation
which works.
So let me run these create.
Let me run this insert statement
so you can see that this new
user has been onboarded into our
product called card flow.
Next, if he wants to do a read
operation like she wants to know
what are her?
Like what?
How much did he did she spend?
What are her transactions that
have happened?
Then she can do a read
operation.
So we have done a read operation
here where we have joined cards
and users table on user ID and
user and we have also selected
the person as Sara.
So if we run this statement.
You can see that you get all the
details of Sarah, all her
personal details, as well as all
the details about her
transactions and card details.
Next, if she decides to upgrade
her credit limit, then we might
have to run an update statement.
So we are running an update
statement here where we are
updating the cards.
We are setting the credit limit
to whatever amount where user is
identified by the user ID which
is 201 for.
So if we run this statement, we
are updating her transactions.
Finally, if she wants to leave
the card management system, she
wants to go out of the she wants
to close her account.
Then we run a delete statement
where we delete her user from
the cards.
So if we do this, it will get
deleted.
So these are various CRUD
operations that we can perform
on IBM DB2 on our fictional
product called Card Flow.
Next, there are business
questions which are which is
handled by Sunil.
So let's now look at some few of
the business question like like
if the first one is like we
decided what's the average
number was the average like per
gender like what's their credit
card limit not not the the
number of credit cards they own.
So we then decided, OK, let's go
with this question and we
decided to go and now we can see
that if we run the Code SQL
code, the SQL query now we get
the output has.
Three.
So yeah, the the male and the
female have an average credit
cards for you.
So now if you look at this
second question like like what's
the average grade cuts per user
and what's his limit and and
what it's like to compare it
with the per capita income of
that user.
Now if we run that SQL query
then you know we would be
getting some words somewhere
between.
OK.
Yeah.
So the average credit card limit
per card is, you know, 1830 and
this in the city of Abbeville.
And the per capita income of
that city is around $1700.
So yeah, it's almost kind of
similar.
So yeah, these are two business
questions that we were worked
on.
And and this is the my team had
explained about the introduction
and the user interface and the
great operation and the business
queries.
Yeah.
So anyone wants to add something
about it?
We are good.
We are good, sunny.
Thank you.
I think he left it off.
Umm.
We can stop the recording eyes.
For now, I think Purna excited.
I'm not sure why.
Yeah.
Have to stop that.
I think it's OK, just went.
Yeah.
I paint.
So done, I think it's still
recording I guess.
It's still recording.